Open main1.py. Before running it, what do you expect this program to do? It's going to print 'Greetings!' and "What is my favorite color? " and will allow us to give input the given question.

Now right click on the window and select “Run Python File in Terminal”. Click in the bottom panel, and answer the question. Describe what happened. A pop-up tab came on the bottom side of the screen where the two sentences were in th output and I had to give a input.

What do you think the program did with what you typed?
It returned a hollow rectangle.



Open main2.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main1.py. it is same but it has a variable named "color" involved.

What do you think the color = input() will do? A variable is assigned to whatever this function returns.

Run the program in the terminal and answer the question. Did the program do what you expected? yes it returned what I typed in the output.



Open main3.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main2.py. It has a conditional loop - if-else and here our input will be tested against the if and if the condition is true then the output in that if will be executedl.

What is happening on lines 11–14? there is if-else conditional loop

Why are lines 12 and 14 indented? because they are inside the if-else conditonal loop.

Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you don’t capitalize Red? it returns 'Sorry, try again.'.

What does this tell you about "color"? that color is a different name assigned to what we actually enter when the program runs.



Open main4.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main2.py. it has if-else and main2.py doesn't but this also lets me enter "red" only to give "Correct" in the output which is a different result from main3.py.

What problem is this trying to solve? it's trying not to be case-sensitive.

Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you use some other capitalization scheme (i.e., “RED” or “reD“)?
it returns "Correct" in both cases of "red and "Red"


Open main5.py. What do you expect line 11 to do? I expect color.lower to convert every character in the input to lower case and then test it against the condition give in the if statement

What problem is it trying to solve?  its trying to get rid of all uppercase characters that the user might possibly type.

Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you add spaces before or after the word (i.e., “  RED  “ or “ red”)? It returns 'Sorry, try again"



Open main6.py. How is line 11 different than main5.py? 

What would you guess .strip() is doing? My guess -> it would allow spaces to be neglected when testing the input in the given condition inside if statement

Run the program and answer the question. Is there another way of writing “red” that will break this logic? no , as long as there is no space inside red , the logic won't be broken



Open main7.py. Before running this program, how do you expect this to be different than main6.py? it has one more condition in the if-else-if (that's how it is in C but i think here elif is else if) conditional loop.

What is the purpose of line 11? to apply .lower and .strip only once using a variable so that the progammer doesnlt have to do it repeatedly in the if-else-if loop.

Run the program and answer the question.

it is doing what i said above. the new case of pink works the same as red except it gives a different output "Close"

Open main8.py. What is the purpose of line 11? it is a while loop. this makes it a posible to make loop run endlessly if we assign the same value in the input thats already assigned to color in while statement. I could say this allows a answer that the program won't accept and will keep askinig until we enter a valid answer.

Why are lines 12–19 indented? because there are inside while loop. its a writing convetion to make porgrams easy to read and debug.

Run the program. What would happen if line 12 were moved before line 11 (and no longer indented)? color would become our input instead of ' ' and if we don't enter red the program will be in a infinite loop

Make that change and run the program again. To end any Python program, you can type ctrl-c.



Open main9.py. What is happening on line 12? 

What is the purpose of “count”? it keeps track of number of times while loop gets executed ( how many guesses were made).

What is happening on line 22? its telling how many times we tried guessing the favorite color

Run the program.


*Extra credit:* open main10.py. Add a comment to each line describing what it is doing (a comment follows a pound sign [#]). 

Commit your changes and push them back to the repository. 

Did you do the extra credit? yes